h1{font-size: 150%}. Ant FTP Backup

p. its an "Ant":http://ant.apache.org based routine to backup your site via ftp - meaning from ftp to local hdd (or where you'll run it). 
*It's free as a free beer, but will take you several minutes to install*. 

h2. Abilities: 

* backup your site via ftp;
* create archive each time when backup;
* download only newer or changed files - this will save you some network traffic and time;
* create new archive only if there were newer or changed files - this will save you several megabytes on your HDD;
* take care for log file from last backup process.

h2. Installation:

(shortly, but here is good description below)
 
* download and install Java (meaning JRE) and add JAVA_HOME environment variable;
* download and unzip Ant and add ANT_HOME environment variable; 
* run 'ant -f fetch.xml' from ANT_HOME directory for fetching several additional ant libraries;
* download this ftpbackup.xml, change properties like user, password, host etc;
* run from command line "ant -f ftpbackup.xml" and enjoy your backup process. 

h2. Scheduling: 

Use scheduler embedded in your OS. This will "crontab" on linux and "Task Scheduler" on Windows. 

h1{font-size: 150%}. A step-by-step description for non geeks

Here I will assume that you are Windows user. If you are linux or mac guy - use your package manager to find and install all the stuff, on linux and macs all following steps will be managed by your package application, you just need to find it and install. So let's start. 

h3. Installing Java

The better place where to find latest JRE version is a "java.com/en/download":http://java.com/en/download/index.jsp page. Click on big red button labeled "Free Java Download", save and then install as any other usual program. During installation please remember the path where Java wants to be installed, remember or better even copy it, because we will need this path at the next step.

"Here":http://java.com/en/download/help/windows_manual_download.xml is sun's help page with images, if you still can't understand how to install it. 

h3. Set up JAVA_HOME environment variable

Open *Control Panel*, find and click on *System and Security* section, open *System* section, find and click on *Advanced system settings*  link at the upper left corner of that window and a *System Properties* pop-up will raised, already opened on *Advanced* tab. Huh, you are here. Now locate the *Environment Variable* button, press it and one another *Environment Variables* pop-up will raised. In the upper *User Variables* section press *New* button and there add your new variable. The Variable Name will be "JAVA_HOME" and the Variable Value will be that path you have copied at previous step. Usually Java installed in "C:\Program Files\Java\jrexx-xx" where the x-s are the numbers of version and build. Click Ok, Ok, Ok to save your added variable and we are done with this.

h3. Check whether you have installed Java correctly

 