h1{font-size: 150%}. Ant FTP Backup Параметры

h2. Обязательные параметры

|_. Имя Параметра|_. Допустимое значение|_. Описание|
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@ftp.host@|Строка| Доменный адрес сайта, без указания протокола и путей к файлам.|
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@ftp.port@|Число| Ftp порт на вашем ftp сервере, обычно 21 на большинстве хотингов|
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@ftp.user@|Строка| Логин для доступа по ftp|
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@ftp.password@|Строка| Пароль для доступа ftp|
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@fromdirectory@|Строка| Путь к удаленной ftp директории, файлы из которой будут скачаны для бекапа. Заметка: лидирующий слеш @/@ не обязателен, но в любом случае путь @fromdirectory@ должен быть указан от корня вашего ftp ресурса. Например, when you open your ftp host in file manager (explorer, far, mc or whatever) and need to proceed for example to @www/mysite.com/public_html/data@ directory in order to backup it, then specify  value for @fromdirectory@ just as @/www/mysite.com/public_html/data@|
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@todirectory@|Строка| Just the full local path where you want your backup to be saved. For example @C:\backups\mysite.com\databak@. All unexisting directories from this path will be created automatically, for example when @backups@ directory is not created yet.|

h2. Optional properties. Use for fine tuning

|_. Property name|_. Allowed value|_. Description|
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@create.archive@| *true* or *false* | Indicates whether to create archive from downloaded resources (true) or not (false)|
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@keep.last.n.archives@|Число| Indicates how many last archives to keep. If the quantity of archives exceeds this number then most oldest archive will be deleted. Useful for keeping 7 latest archives if you make backups daily, or keep 4 archives if you backup once per week, for example |
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@follow.symlinks@| *true* or *false* | When this property is set to *true*, then backuper will walk into symlinks as in usual directories. But I really don't know what would be the side effect if there are cyclic symlinks will appeared. *false* by default |
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@get.only.newer.or.changed@| *true* or *false* | *true* will indicates that only updated or new resources will downloaded during *next* backup of the same resource. This can save you much time, because each file or directory will only be checked against that files that were already been downloaded previous time, but will not transfer them if they are not changed. *false* if you want to retrieve all remote resources each time when backup. Sure, this property will not effect if @clean.after.archiving@ will be set to true, neither @newer@ been *true* or *false*. By default a *true* value is assigned |
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@clean.after.archiving@|*true* or *false*| When *true* then all downloaded resources will be deleted after archiving. Sure, if you will not create archive after downloading and then will want to clean all that transfered stuff, I really don' know why you want to backup something :) |
{background-color:#F8F8F8}. |@log.level@| *info* or *verbose* | Log level indicates how much detailed output log file will. Each time when backup run it will log information about *current* process, so you will not see logs from previous backups. Anyway the "*info*" will write only important messages (logging into ftp account, transferring files, deleting old archives etc) and "*verbose*" will more detailed, so it will also log messages about comparing newer files with existing, entering ftp directories, creating md5 hash sums etc. "*verbose*" mode may be useful for debugging, when ftp backup process freezes or you can not log in. By default "*info*" is used |
{background-color:#F0F0F0}. |@ftp.passive.mode@|*true* or *false*| Usually ftp connections use passive mode, and by default this property is set to *true*, but if you know what you do, you can switch it to *false*, it also may be useful for debug purposes when you encounter troubles with ftp connection or when your backup freezes. But again, actually you do not need to change it |

 
